In this video, we're going to discuss how to find a basis of the kernel
of a linear transformation. So I have the same linear transformation we've been working with
T going from R^4 to R^3 given by Standard Matrix written down
there. But I also rewrote what T does to the vector x, y, z, w.
Right. So we could also see this as setting the vector X, Y, Z W to the vector
2x+4y+2z-4w in the first component and so on and so forth.
And we'll see why this is helpful in just a second. So just to recall from
previous, the kernel of a linear transformation is all the things that get mapped
to the zero vector. So the question we're asking ourselves is what vectors
X, Y, Z, W when we plug them into T, spit out the zero vector.
So in other words, what we need to happen is we need to have that first component equal
to zero.
We need to have that second component equal to zero.
And this one was supposed to be zero. And
the third component needs to also be zero.
So in other words, we need to solve a homogenous system
of equations in order to find the kernel. And so
if we want to find a basis of the kernel, we are simply finding a basis of solution
set of a homogenous system of equations, which is exactly standard V9.
So let's finish this one out. We have written down a homogenous system
here. So in order to write down the solution set, we'll first need to find the reduced row echelon
form of the matrix that goes with that system, which conveniently
enough is the standard matrix for our linear transformation.
So we use a calculator here to compute this 1 2 0 0
0 0 1 0 in our last row and 0 0
0 1. So now what this tells us is
that we can write a simpler system. So our first row
says, whoops, that was supposed to be an X and that looks too much like a Y.
So let's try it again. That first row says X plus two
Y should give us zero. That's a better X. X plus two Y.
Leave a little space here. Our second row says Z
equals zero. And our last row says W equals
zero. So if we look up at our matrix, we have
three pivot columns and one non-pivot column. So our non pivot
column corresponds to a free variable. So that was y. We can let
y be our favorite letter. I usually go with a.
And then we can substitute in a for. Sorry
a for Y. And then we can solve for X here. So X should be -2a
Y should be a Z should be zero.
And then W should be zero. So our solution
set the kernel is going to be
all of the vectors of the form -2a a 0 0.
Such that a
is any real number. Now, to find a
basis for the kernel, it's just like we're working V9. We simply
need to know that we can factor out that free variable here.
And if we had additional free variables, we could factor those out as well. So
we end up with is a basis of
the kernel of T is simply
the single vector -2 1 0 0.